Hello world,

So after a long time we are today going to start our new session or live practical session of HTML course.
You might thinking why this take so long right. It is becuase we create our whole new setup and we started 
to create new projects and whole content so now videos will come back to back.

So Lets get started to our HTML course for beginner and for developers. 

In todyas topic we are going to learn :
 1) Introduction
 2) Usefull terms & Definations
 3) Starting with HTML
 4) Most basic web page
 5) What we learn
 
 Without wasting our further time lets dive into it.
 
 In  your day to day life when you sufferr on web browser you might think that how this all things work and 
 how this all things created.
 
 To know this lets know little bit history of HTML. In Late 1991 Sir Tim Berners-Lee created HTML page.
 So thank him for this creation. Due too his creation we are able to cheat in our onlinw exam.(Jokes Apart)
 
 Now HTML is not an name html has fulform Hyper Text Markup Language. It is used to create websites and CSS 
 (Cascading StyleSheet) which helps to give html page an ceative look and at last JS which stand for Java Script 
 which create our website dynamic.
 
 Now you know little bit about HTML. So lets move further. 
 
 Useful terms
 
 Now lets see dome of the usefull terms which we use through out the course.
 HTML:
    Stands for HYPER TEXT MARKUP LANGUAGE  it used to create web pages.
CSS:
    Stand for Cascading Style Sheet. It use to give style in our web page.
JS:
    Java Script used to give dynamic look to webpage.
HTTP:
    Stand for Hyper TEXT Transfer Protocol. Use to locate our web page.
HTTPS:
    Same as HTTP but in secure way.
URL:
    Stand for Universal Resorce locator. It is use to give our website an domain name.
Tags:
    An HTML tag is commonly defined as a set of characters constituting a formatted command for a Web page.
    
Staring with HTML

Now you have very basic knowlegde to dive into HTML world. So welcome to HTML world.

Now lets dive into editor but before that you may have question that where to wirte the HTML 
code right. Don't worry we have a way If you are using laptop, computer or PC than you already
have editor. 

Yes you heared it right you already have editor that is Notepad. but notepad is used for basic 
webpage only it dosen't support high level tags used in HTML. 

And if you are using phone or tablet than go to onlinegdb.com it provides you online compiling
option for most od languages you can practice on it. 

For advance coding I might suggest 2 software 1st is Visual Studio Code and another is Dreamweaver

which free open source software.

In later course I will se you those editors.

Now lets go to the notepad

So this is my default screen of notepad so lets started our Most basic and your first page of HTML

I already had uploaded a video for most basic page of HTML in youtube link in Description and On youtube cards.

So HTML is basically an sandwich type coding langugae and it is not case-sensetive language. I said sandwhich
type that means the HTML page contain some tags which when open must be closed and content is sandwiched
between this tags.

so type the same you will understand the thing.

so first we have to open html so type in <html> and closed it simultaneously so that you dont forget to close the 
tag. Next is Head section of the webpage which usually dont see in the webpage but it use to give location of
scripts, stylesheet and even title of the webpage. And closed it also simultaneously now in head section you can type 
title of the web page which has a tag of <title>...</title> 

Here as it is the first web page.I will name it Fist web Page.

Next is body which you can also say visible part of HTML webpage. In the body section what ever you write that will 
be displayed in the web page. for example if I write the Heading usin <h1>...</h1> tag It will diplay heading of in 
the webpage.

Here I am writing First Page as heading.

Now there is upto 6 types of heading in which h1 is for most important heading and h6 is for least important heading.

To write Paragraph in the webpage <p>...</p> (P) tag is used. Like when I write any thing I.E
This ia an sample paragraph it dosen't have any use
it is just for example.

now let save it and watch he output. To save it just press ctrl+s then name it and use .html extension  if you forget
.html extension than it save as text file so save it as .html extension.

Now lets open in the browser. So as you can see and I said earlier the head section we write in the editor doesn't show here 
but the body section is appear and also you may seen some difference that in the paragraph after any use word I useed new line 
but in webpage it dosen't seem here so that is becuase HTML editors ignores white spaces. So to add a line break you have to use 
<br> tag someting like <br>. But this dosen't contain Closing tag you have to note that.

Now it is working Fine right. So this is the most basic web page ever and intorducation to HTML If you enjoy the video just hit like
share and subscribe and don't forget to comment it out that how do you like that. 

And just comment us what other Course you want to what out with us.

Thank you this is Navin sharma Edu-Moon signing-off.
See you int he next video.
